* If Emacs stops responding to your commands, you can stop it safely by
typing C-g.  You can use C-g to stop a command which is taking too
long to execute.

* Most Emacs commands accept a numeric argument; for most commands, this
serves as a repeat-count.  The way you give a command a repeat count
is by typing C-u and then the digits before you type the command. 

* important note: to end the Emacs session, type C-x C-c.  (Two characters.)
The characters ">>" at the left margin indicate directions for you to
try using a command.  For instance:

The following commands are useful for viewing screenfuls:

	C-v     Move forward one screenful
	M-v     Move backward one screenful
	C-l     Clear screen and redisplay all the text,
                 moving the text around the cursor
                 to the center of the screen.
                 (That's CONTROL-L, not CONTROL-1.)


Cursor navigation :
                          Previous line, C-p
                                  :
                                  :
   Backward, C-b .... Current cursor position .... Forward, C-f
                                  :
                                  :
                            Next line, C-n
* If moving by characters is too slow, you can move by words.  M-f
(META-f) moves forward a word and M-b moves back a word.
type <ESC>v if you do not have a META, EDIT, or ALT key).


Here is a summary of simple cursor-moving operations, including the
word and sentence moving commands:

        C-f     Move forward a character
        C-b     Move backward a character

        M-f     Move forward a word
        M-b     Move backward a word

        C-n     Move to next line
        C-p     Move to previous line

        C-a     Move to beginning of line
        C-e     Move to end of line

        M-a     Move back to beginning of sentence
        M-e     Move forward to end of sentence
Two other important cursor motion commands are M-< (META Less-than),
which moves to the beginning of the whole text, and M-> (META
Greater-than), which moves to the end of the whole text.

* Delete commands *
	<Delback>    Delete the character just before the cursor
        C-d          Delete the next character after the cursor

        M-<Delback>  Kill the word immediately before the cursor
	M-d          Kill the next word after the cursor

        C-k          Kill from the cursor position to end of line
	M-k          Kill to the end of the current sentence

